---
layout: post
title: "Top 4 internet scams (cyber threats) targeting older adults"
author: jane
categories: [Internet Safety]
image: assets/images/umbrella-pic.jpg
tags: [sticky]
---

Older adults are becoming [increasingly digital and coming online](https://www.pewinternet.org/2017/05/17/technology-use-among-seniors/https://www.pewinternet.org/2017/05/17/technology-use-among-seniors/) at a rapid pace. However, the internet was not created with protecting its users in mind. As Vinton Cerf, one of the creators of internet protocols, put it: [“We didn’t focus on how you could wreck this system intentionally.”](https://www.pewinternet.org/2017/08/10/the-fate-of-online-trust-in-the-next-decade/#vinton-cerf)

**Here are 4 common types of internet scams you should know about:**

1. Phishing attacks
   - The FTC defines phishing attacks as "when someone sends you an email containing malware." These attacks can be done without any of your personal information.
     - Examples of this include:
       - Emails asking you to download something
       - Emails pretending to be from sites like Google, Dropbox, the government, or banks to get you to share valuable personal information – such as account numbers, Social Security numbers, or your login IDs and passwords
       - Emails disguised as winning entrees for a lottery or prize sweepstake
       - Emails about cheap fake prescription drugs
2. Social engineering attacks
   - Social engineering attacks will use your personal information to disugise their attack.
     - Examples of this include
       - Someone impersonating your friend or family on Facebook to ask for money or personal information
       - Someone gaining your trust through dating apps to ask for money or personal information
3. Fraudulent banner advertisements
   - Unlike physical billboards, digital banner advertisements are much cheaper for scammers to use. Banner advertisements will come in different shapes and sizes, some showing up as a window in your browser to covering your entire browser.
     - Examples of this include advertisements for:
       - Dating in your area
       - Business opportunities/work at home plans
       - Fake investment opportunities
       - Tech support
       - Virus alerts
       - Fake anti-aging products
4. Dangerous websites
   - Dangerous websites will infect your computer just by visiting them.
     - Examples of this include:
       - Any website where you are warned by your browser
       - Any website where you are warned by your antivirus software
     - The best defense against this is to never click on links that you aren't familiar with or trust.